Michael Dratch
Jason Barnick
Jonah Andermin

10/6/2023

Project 2 Retrospective

1. what went well
	On this project we did a good job of managing our time. 
	We created a roadmap of the different intermediate goals 
	how how long each step would take. We were pretty successful 
	at keeping to this schedule and piortizing the most imporant 
	tasks. We also did well at distributing work so that each 
	group member could focus on tasks that aligned with thier skills.
	
2. what did not go well
	We had challenges coming to agreement on the goals of each 
	pipeline layer. In the beginning of the project we did not 
	have a totally aligned understanding of the purpose and structre 
	of the three data layers. After discussion and a lot of diagramming 
	we were able to come to agreement on a schema for each layer that 
	fit the overall project goals. 

	Also, during our implementation, we struggled to fully parallelize 
	and optimize our workload. There seemed to be tasks the could run 
	in parellel but were being run sequentially. We spent a lot of time 
	trying to optimize expensive transformations. In the future we hope 
	that with more experience and understanding of complex spark transformation 
	we would be able to create more effiecient solutions.
	
3. what you could imporive on
	Generally we feel like we could have gained a deeper understanding into 
	the meaning and structure of the data. There were parts of the data which 
	we did not make use of in a meaningful way. A deeper understanding would 
	have allowed us to better focus on the most significant parts of the data.
	Additionally, there were times in the project where we spent too much time 
	trying to solve specific problems in our pipeline. In future projects we 
	would like to quickly move on from specific problems that arnt essential 
	to the overall goals of the project given the short time frame.

4. General comments
	We felt that the large scope of this project allowed for many different types 
	of solutions. Out limited experience in data modeling made it difficult to narrow 
	in on the best schema for this data and use case. We feel like narrowing in on 
	more specific requiremnts would have been helpful in guiding our project.

5. What we learned
	This project gave a a much deeper practical understanding of how a data pipeline 
	in constructed, as well a stronger understanding of the features of spark and Databricks.